[MUSIC]
Hi everyone, in this video I will
talk about the application of matrix
factorization technique
in feature extraction.
You will see a few application
of the approach for
feature extraction and
we will be able to apply it.
I will show you several examples
along with practical details.
Here's a classic example
of recommendations.
Suppose we have some information about
user, like age, region, interest and
items like gender, year length.
Also we know ratings that
users gave to some items.
These ratings can be organized in a user
item matrix with row corresponding to
users, and columns corresponding to items,
as shown in the picture.
In a cell with coordinates i, j,
the user or agent can be chooser i,
give the item j.
Assume that our user
have some features Ui.
And jth item have is
corresponding feature Mj.
And scalar product of these
features produce a rating Rij.
Now we can apply matrix factorization
to learning those features for
item and users.
Sometimes these features
can have an interpretation.
Like the first feature in item can
be measured of or something similar.
But generally you should consider them
as some extra features, which we can use
to encode user in the same way as we did
before with labeling coder or coder.
Specifically our assumption about
scale of product is the following.
If we present all attributes of user and
items as matrixes, the matrix product will
be very close to the matrix's ratings.
In other words,
which way to find matrix's U and
M, such as their product
gives the matrix R.
This way, this approach is called matrix
factorization or matrix composition.
In previous examples, we used both row and
column related features.
But sometimes we don't let
the features correspond to rows.
Let's consider another example.
Suppose that we are texts, do you
remember how we usually classify text?
We extract features and each document
was described by a large sparse reactor.
If we do matrix factorization over
these parse features, we will get
the representation for index displayed
in yellow, and terms displayed in green.
Although we can somehow
use representation for
jumps, we are interested only
in representations for dogs.
Now every document is described
by a small, dense reactor.
These are our features, and we can use
them in a way similar to previous example.
This case is often called
dimension energy reduction.
It's quite an efficient way to reduce
the size of feature metric, and
extract real valued features
from categorical ones.
In competitions we often have
different options for purchasing.
For example, using text data,
you can run back of big rams and so on.
Using matrix optimization technique,
you are able to extract features
from all of these matrices.
Since the resulting matrices will be
small, we can easily join them and
use togetherness of the features
in tree-based models.
Now I want to make a few comments
about matrix factorization.
Not just that we are not
constrained to reduce whole matrix,
you can apply factorization to a subset
of a column and leave the other as is.
Besides reduction you can
use pressure boards for
getting another presentation
of the same data.
This is especially useful for
example since it provides velocity
of its models and leads to a better.
Of course matrix factorization
is a loss of transformation,
in other words we will lose some
information after the search reduction.
Efficiency of this approach heavily
depends on a particular task and
choose a number of latent factors.
The number should be considered as
a hyper parameter and needs to be tuned.
It's a good practice to choose
a number of factors between 5 and 100.
Now, let's switch from general idea
to particular implementations.
Several matrix factorization
methods are implemented in circuit
as the most famous SVD and PCA.
In addition,
their use included TruncatedSVD,
which can work with sparse matrices.
It's very convenient for example,
in case of text datasets.
Also there exists a so called non-negative
matrix factorization, or NMF.
It impose an additional restrictions that
all hidden factors are non-negative,
that is either zero or a positive number.
It can be applied only to
non-negative matrixes.
For example matrix where all represented
occurence of each word in the document.
NMF has an interesting property,
it transforms data in a way that makes
data more suitable for decision trees.
Take a look at the picture from
Microsoft Mobile Classification Challenge.
It can be seen that NMF transform data
forms lines parallel to the axis.
A few more notes on matrix factorizations.
Essentially they are very
similar to linear models, so
we can use the same transformation
tricks as we use for linear models.
So in addition to standard NMF,
I advise you to apply
the factorization to transform data.
Here's another plot from the competition.
It's clear that these two transformations
produce different features, and
we don't have to choose the best one.
Instead, it's beneficial
to use both of them.
I want to note that matrix factorization
is a trainable transformation, and
has its own parameters.
So we should be careful, and
use the same transformation for
all parts of your data set.
Reading and transforming each
part individually is wrong,
because in that case you will get
two different transformations.
This can lead to an error
which will be hard to find.
The correct method is shown below,
first we need to
the data information on all data and
only then apply to each individual piece.
To sum up, matrix composition is a very
general approach to dimensional reduction
and feature extraction.
It can be used to transform
categorical feature into real ones.
And tricks for linear models are also
suitable for matrix factorizations.
Thank you for your attention.
[MUSIC]
[SOUND]